
 <h3>Blockchain Technology</h3>
                     A block chain is basically a living list of records, called as "blocks". These blocks are connected to each other by the diverse cryptographic mechanisms. In the category of data structures, this can be related to the concept of a Linked List. In Block chain, the initial block is known as the "Genesis Block". This naming convention is basically a major commendation to Satoshi Nakamoto. The domain of crypto-currency was pioneered by a bogus naming convention. It can be related to a random scenario of a person or a group of persons, represented by a peculiar name “Satoshi Nakamoto”. In the year 2008, for the purpose of Bitcoin this name was utilized. The technology that was used behind the Bitcoin spectrum was “Block-Chain”. Initially the structure of a block has basically 3 components namely data, hash of current block and hash of previous block. As an illustration in general, the concept of block-chain can be depicted with “m” blocks forming a chain where m can be any random positive integer.
<br><br>  
<h3>Consensus Mechanism</h3>
                    A consensus mechanism is a fault-tolerant mechanism that is used in computer and blockchain systems to achieve the necessary
                    agreement on a single data value or a single state of the network among distributed processes or multi-agent systems, 
                    such as with cryptocurrencies. It is useful in record-keeping, among other things.
                     
<h4>Consensus Model</h4>
                     This model basically deals with the soundness as well as safety of the blockchain. The primitive condition to be followed for this is to be consistent across the shared state.
                     Consensus is a vital approach because without a medial power, the users must follow the protocols and how to solicit them.
                     <h4>Mining</h4>In terms of the block chain domain, mining is the procedure of appending transactions to an enormous distributed ledger of extant transactions. This concept is well suited for the bitcoin approach but the diverse technologies that uses the blockchain approach can also perform the approach of mining as well. It allows the creation of a hash for a block of transactions that cannot be changed easily protecting the integrity approach of the block chain. The concept of mining goes really well with the other two approaches that are open ledger and distributed ledger.
                    <h4>Proof of Work</h4>
                     This consensus algorithmic rule deals with the prevention of raw facts & figures, in blocks from tampering. By this mechanism, the blocks can be appended into a chain in a perpetual manner. Hashing as well as linking are the domains of safety in blockchain. A brief idea, of the hashing algorithmic rules have been understood by the user in the previous experiment (experiment no.2). For appending the blocks in the blockchain, the miners are provided with some tricky mathematical puzzles. The first miner to solve the puzzle, gets a reward that is based on some policy. One must understand that there should be enough computational power to solve that tricky mathematical puzzle.
                     After the solving of the puzzle, the blocks get added to chain thus forming blockchain.<br>
                     Proof of work is a consensus algorithm in blockchain technology. In Blockchain, miners use this algorithm to confirm transactions and create new blocks in the blockchain. With proof of work, miners try and compete against others to confirm the transaction in less time to get rewarded. For that miners have to solve a complex mathematical puzzle. 
                     Bitcoin is the most famous application of proof of work. In Blockchain it takes 10 minutes for the creation of Blockchain. 
                     <h4>Proof of Stake</h4>
                     It is an alternative measure to the proof of Work (Pow). To achieve the objective of the distributed consensus this algorithmic rule can be used. In this mechanism, also the validation of blocks takes place. Pos is somehow, less risky in comparison to the other protocol mentioned. Everything under this mechanism, holds a principle that “Proportions of Coins held by the miner”.It is an alternative measure to the proof of Work (Pow). To achieve the objective of the distributed consensus this algorithmic rule can be used. In this mechanism, also the validation of blocks takes place. Pos is somehow, less risky in comparison to the other protocol mentioned. Everything under this mechanism, holds a principle that “Proportions of Coins held by the miner”.<br>The proof of stake (PoS) seeks to address this issue by attributing mining power to the proportion of coins held by a miner. This way, instead of utilizing energy to answer PoW puzzles, a PoS miner is limited to mining a percentage of transactions that is reflective of his or her ownership stake.With a PoS, the attacker would need to obtain 51% of the cryptocurrency to carry out a 51% attack. The Proof of Stake avoids this by making it disadvantageous for a miner with a 51% stake in a cryptocurrency to attack the network.
                     <br><br>

